Luang-Por-Pramote.md, before:

# Luang Por Pramote

Selected teachings from Luang Por Pramote of dhamma.com.

[มีสติรักษาจิต : หลวงพ่อปราโมทย์ ปาโมชฺโช ๒๒ พ.ค. ๒๕๖๔ (640522)](https://media.dhamma.com/pramote/cd/090/640522.mp3)
- Title: Having Mindfulness (`Sati`) protects/heals the Mind (`Jit`)
- Date: 22 May 2021
- Total Time: 41:24m
- Source: https://www.dhamma.com/download/cd90/640522.mp3
- 08:00-08:12: Summarized the Four Noble Truths as:
    - Sending `jit` out is `samudaya` (the cause of suffering)
    - Result of sending `jit` out is `dukkha` (suffering)
    - `Jit` seeing `jit` clearly is `magga` (the path out of suffering)
    - Result of `jit` seeing `jit` clearly is `nirod` (the end of suffering)

[ถ้าทิ้งรูปแบบ จิตจะไม่มีแรง : หลวงพ่อปราโมทย์ ปาโมชฺโช ๒๓ พ.ค. ๒๕๖๔ (640523)](https://media.dhamma.com/pramote/cd/090/640523.mp3)
- Title: Meditation training strengthens mindfulness
- Date: 23 May 2021
- Total Time: 45:03m
- Source: https://www.dhamma.com/download/cd90/640523.mp3
- @7:59
    - No matter what kind of `prung`, the jit is burdened
    - Practice to free jit from both bad and good
- @8:44
    - All jit, both good and bad, are all the same in that they all
      arise and then cease.
- @14:37
    - Practice distances dukkha
    - Defilements slowly removed
    - Fame is a defilement that binds
    - Sensual desires is a defilement that binds
    - Ignorance is a defilement that binds
- @18:35
    - The specific path/technique to arrive at nibbana may differ for
      everyone
    - As long as the direction is the same, the gradual reduction of
      defilements over time
- @19:25
    - Some enter samadhi, then see body and vedana
    - The body and vedana, extends over a long span of time, so hard to
      see arising and ceasing of them. It is easier to see nama-dhamma
      that arises together with jit e.g. suk/tuk/dee/cua. This is the
      way of those who use panya to lead samadhi.
- @22:32
    - Don't worry too much about prophecies
    - Just practice steadily, and know how much defilements are still
      left
    - Practice daily, don't worry about when you'll reach
- @24:27
    - Luang Por Pramote insists that if one does not practice
      meditation, the jit will be weak
- @25:29
    - cvlc pramote-640523.mp3 --start-time 1529 --stop-time 1562
    - On simple practice
    - If don't know what do to, then do breathing meditation, know the
      state of the body (ruu-sek tua)
    - Don't simply sit mindlessly (jai-loi: literally heart floating)
    - Don't let the mind get clouded (jai-serm: literally heart worsen)
    - Awaken the mind, know the state of the body (ruu-sek tua)
    - Clouded mind is not good, it begets ignorance (moha)
- @26:19-34:09
    - cvlc pramote-640523.mp3 --start-time 1579 --stop-time 2049
    - On formal practice
    - Don't forget sati
    - Jit will move, travel, look around, don't stay still
    - Use sati to know the state of the jit
    - Don't force jit to be still, just know that it is not still
    - Just sit relax and just know what it's up to
- @34:09
    - cvlc pramote-640523.mp3 --start-time 2049
    - Details on practice

## TODO

- List all the different kinds of defilements
- Know how much defilements are still left
    - Still want my daily coffee
    - Maybe don't force, it will drop away by itself?

Know the jit:
- suk / tuk
- dee / cua
- yindee / yinrai
- fungsan
- langlei
- songsai
- lamkhanjai
- oognog ruu
- mai bangkap (don't force)

free the mind from all kinds of `prung`

Commit message:

Add notes on daily sati practice

Luang-Por-Pramote.md, after:

# Luang Por Pramote

Selected teachings from Luang Por Pramote of dhamma.com.

[มีสติรักษาจิต : หลวงพ่อปราโมทย์ ปาโมชฺโช ๒๒ พ.ค. ๒๕๖๔ (640522)](https://media.dhamma.com/pramote/cd/090/640522.mp3)
- Title: Having Mindfulness (`Sati`) protects/heals the Mind (`Jit`)
- Date: 22 May 2021
- Total Time: 41:24m
- Source: https://www.dhamma.com/download/cd90/640522.mp3
- 08:00-08:12: Summarized the Four Noble Truths as:
    - Sending `jit` out is `samudaya` (the cause of suffering)
    - Result of sending `jit` out is `dukkha` (suffering)
    - `Jit` seeing `jit` clearly is `magga` (the path out of suffering)
    - Result of `jit` seeing `jit` clearly is `nirod` (the end of suffering)

[ถ้าทิ้งรูปแบบ จิตจะไม่มีแรง : หลวงพ่อปราโมทย์ ปาโมชฺโช ๒๓ พ.ค. ๒๕๖๔ (640523)](https://media.dhamma.com/pramote/cd/090/640523.mp3)
- Title: Meditation training strengthens mindfulness
- Date: 23 May 2021
- Total Time: 45:03m
- Source: https://www.dhamma.com/download/cd90/640523.mp3
- @7:59
    - No matter what kind of `prung`, the jit is burdened
    - Practice to free jit from both bad and good
- @8:44
    - All jit, both good and bad, are all the same in that they all
      arise and then cease.
- @14:37
    - Practice distances dukkha
    - Defilements slowly removed
    - Fame is a defilement that binds
    - Sensual desires is a defilement that binds
    - Ignorance is a defilement that binds
- @18:35
    - The specific path/technique to arrive at nibbana may differ for
      everyone
    - As long as the direction is the same, the gradual reduction of
      defilements over time
- @19:25
    - Some enter samadhi, then see body and vedana
    - The body and vedana, extends over a long span of time, so hard to
      see arising and ceasing of them. It is easier to see nama-dhamma
      that arises together with jit e.g. suk/tuk/dee/cua. This is the
      way of those who use panya to lead samadhi.
- @22:32
    - Don't worry too much about prophecies
    - Just practice steadily, and know how much defilements are still
      left
    - Practice daily, don't worry about when you'll reach
- @24:27
    - Luang Por Pramote insists that if one does not practice
      meditation, the jit will be weak
- @25:29
    - cvlc pramote-640523.mp3 --start-time 1529 --stop-time 1562
    - On simple practice
    - If don't know what do to, then do breathing meditation, know the
      state of the body (ruu-sek tua)
    - Don't simply sit mindlessly (jai-loi: literally heart floating)
    - Don't let the mind get clouded (jai-serm: literally heart worsen)
    - Awaken the mind, know the state of the body (ruu-sek tua)
    - Clouded mind is not good, it begets ignorance (moha)
- @26:19-34:09
    - cvlc pramote-640523.mp3 --start-time 1579 --stop-time 2049
    - On formal practice
    - Don't forget sati
    - Jit will move, travel, look around, don't stay still
    - Use sati to know the state of the jit
    - Don't force jit to be still, just know that it is not still
    - Just sit relax and just know what it's up to
- @34:09-41:48
    - cvlc pramote-640523.mp3 --start-time 2049 --stop-time 2508
    - Practice the three parts daily:
        1. Keep the Five Precepts (sinh har)
        2. Practice formally (e.g. meditation in various postures)
        3. Practice sati (mindfulness) in everyday activities
    - Divide up the day to each part of the practice
    - Details on practicing sati in everyday activities
        - Be aware of the six sense impressions:
            - sight, sound, smell, taste, feel, mental impressions
        - Know yindee / yinrai
        - Know yindee / yinrai at the heart as well
            - Feeling satisfied with being at peace
            - Wanting to feel peaceful
            - Know what the jit is up to
        - Only one thing: jit yindee or yinrai, be mindful of how the
          jit is feeling
        - Need not know at each of the senses, too slow
        - Know at just one place, the jit, whether jit yindee or yinrai
        - This practice also leads to sinh (moral behaviour)
        - And leads to samadhi
    - Each part of the practice is important. Formal practice is
      especially important. Without formal practice, one will not have
      the strength to practice sati in everyday activities.

## TODO

- List all the different kinds of defilements
- Know how much defilements are still left
    - Still want my daily coffee
    - Maybe don't force, it will drop away by itself?

Know the jit:
- suk / tuk
- dee / cua
- yindee / yinrai
- fungsan
- langlei
- songsai
- lamkhanjai
- oognog ruu
- mai bangkap (don't force)

free the mind from all kinds of `prung`
